# unitconversion
Convert measurements of multiple surfaces sequentially into surface area

This prorgram arose out of necessity but turned into an opportunity to improve and expand my skills and provide the basis for a useful application. I'm having my kitchen countertops re-done, so I made schematic drawings of the surfaces which I've been sending to contractors. One of them quoted me at 30 sq ft of material while my measurements showed the surfaces to total about 21 sq ft. I came up with this program to make sure I was measuring correctly. When I asked for an explanation I got a new story - the minimum amount was 30 sq ft.

However, this gave me an opportunity to use vectorization through numpy as a way to increase my program speed. The program interactively collects the two dimensions of one or more rectangular surfaces and then multiplies them and adds them to a list. Vectorization then converts them to the appropriate units - the measurements can be provided in inches or centimeters and are converted to square feet or meters depending on the user's preference. I used timeit to measure the speed difference between a for loop and vectorization, and vectorization was an order of magnitude faster even on a short list. I also used this as an opportunity to increase the complexity of the string formatting I've used.

The next step is to expand this into a GUI app using tkinter. Google provides conversions from one squared unit to another, but this would not be a safe solution for the problem of combining multiple surfaces - my program requires only single dimension measurements to be input so no calculation is required on the part of the user and it's also not necessary to keep track of the results of multiple calculations which need to be combined. This app would have broad application for contractors and could be expanded to surveyprs using land measure units (turning feet into acres, hectares, square miles, etc.)
